# **Zalim Bashorov**

| (Lead/Senior) Software Engineer [bashorov@gmail.com](mailto:bashorov@gmail.com) |  |
| :---- | :---- |

# Work Experience

## **JetBrains (JetBrains N.V.)**

Aug 2021 – Present  
Location: Netherlands, Amsterdam

### *Team Lead for Kotlin Wasm* 

Oct 2022 – Present

* …

\_\_\_\_

### *Tech Lead for Kotlin Compiler Backends*

Aug 2021 – Oct 2022

* Design and evolution of common compiler infrastructure.

\_\_\_\_

### *Team Lead for Kotlin JS & Wasm* 

Feb 2018 – Oct 2022

* (Same as below)

## **JetBrains (IntelliJ Labs Co Ltd.)**

Oct 2012 – Jul 2021  
Location: Russia, Saint-Petersburg

### *Team Lead for Kotlin JS & Wasm* 

Feb 2018 – Jul 2021

* Actively worked on the design of Kotlin/JS interop.  
* Worked on the new Kotlin/JS compiler backend (as tech lead)  
  * Made various improvements in DCE optimization  
  * Implemented sourcemap generation  
* Actively participated in the common compiler infrastructure design.  
  * Common Intermediate Representation and utilities around it.  
  * Drove works on klib (the new Kotlin library format)  
* Was responsible for planning and prioritizing tasks with the following execution.  
* Was involved in hiring processes:  
  * Interviewed candidates  
  * Prepared trial assignment tasks  
  * Verified candidates’ works  
* Build and optimize processes inside the team.  
* Worked closely with users by helping them and processing their feedback.  
* Advocated supporting wasm as another compilation target  
  * Started a new compiler backend for that.

\_\_\_\_

### *Coordinator for Kotlin Build Infrastructure*

Dec 2018  –  Jun 2019

Due to reorganizations, the team left without a manager, so I temporarily took this role.

* I helped to coordinate and prioritize tasks.  
* Started the hiring process.  
  * Found and recommended a person as Team Lead of the team (he was accepted on the new role after a trial period).  
* Actively pushed the process of getting regular green builds.

\_\_\_\_

### *Software Engineer in Kotlin*

May 2013  –  Feb 2018

* Worked on a precise incremental compilation for Kotlin/JVM  
  * Was a coordinator and de facto tech lead of initiative.  
  * Designed base principles of the new scheme.  
  * Refactored critical parts for the compiler to make it possible to collect the required information.  
* Helped to fix some bugs and implement various features in frontend and JVM compiler backend while preparing for the first release of  Kotlin.  
* De facto for a long time was a Project Manager and Tech Lead of Kotlin/JS target.  
  * Actively worked on the design of Kotlin/JS interop.  
  * Worked on implementing features and fixing bugs  
  * Prioritized and coordinated tasks.  
* Supervised an internship work on inline support in Kotlin/JS compiler backend.

\_\_\_\_

### *Intern in Kotlin Project*

Oct 2012 – May 2013

* Worked on implementing features and fixing bugs for Kotlin/JS  
* Analyzed performance of code generated by Kotlin/JS compiler on various sceneries and proposed changes to improve performance.  
* Actively participated in the Kotlin Community

## 

## **BFS corp.**

Jan 2010 – Aug 2011  
Location: Russia, Nalchik

### *Software Engineer*

Jan 2010 – Aug 2011

* Developed drivers on Windows and macOS to update firmwares using the DFU protocol  
  * Also, integrated it with the UI part.  
* Worked on a service to take a snapshot of sites by schedule.  
* Some other fixes and improvements in customer systems.

## **ITV Group / AxxonSoft**

Oct 2008 – Nov 2009  
Location: Russia, Nalchik

### *Software Engineer*

Oct 2008 – Nov 2009

* Worked on supporting IP and other CCTV cameras in software products developed by the company.

## **Kabardino-Balkarian State University**

Sep 2005 – Sep 2008  
Location: Russia, Nalchik

### *Engineer*

Sep 2005 – Sep 2008

* Helped users with their daily work.  
* Installed, updated, and set up software.  
* Wrote some tools to automate daily routines.

# Education

## **Saint Petersburg Academic University**

2011 – 2013  
**Degree:** Master of Applied Mathematics and Physics (Software Engineering Program)

## **Kabardino-Balkarian State University**

2003 – 2008  
**Degree:** Engineer of Automated Systems of Processing and Control Informations / Инженер АСОИУ

# Skills & Interests

Kotlin; Java; C++;  
Compilers; Interpreters; Virtual Machines;

# Certificates / Tests

## **Brainbench C++ Fundamentals** 

09 March 2012   
Score: **4,69**   
[https://www.brainbench.com/content/transcript/topicdetail.do?testid=12321604](https://www.brainbench.com/content/transcript/topicdetail.do?testid=12321604)

## **Brainbench C++** 

09 March 2012   
Score: **4,25**   
[https://www.brainbench.com/content/transcript/topicdetail.do?testid=12322725](https://www.brainbench.com/content/transcript/topicdetail.do?testid=12322725)

# Languages

Russian (Native)  
English (B2)